Hello everybody and welcome in this lecture we're going to have some fun and actually create our pin
that you can see in front of us here is very straightforward to do so let's dive in and find out more.
Hello everybody and welcome.
So the first thing we need to do here is go into edit mode on our newly formed mesh object.
I'm going to tab over into edit mode.
Now that I've done that I'm going to select everything because I'm going to do this operation on everything.
Couple of common sense checks here that we need to make sure first of all we need to just check that
this is in fact where X equals zero which it is.
And this one down at the bottom this vertex down at the bottom is also where X equals zero.
Brilliant.
That is important because what we're about to do is we're about to use a function called spin.
And it does matter where your object is in relation to the objects origin.
So if we just tab out back into object mode here we see that the origin is currently smack bang down
at the center.
That's this orange dot.
If we go and go tab back into edit mode and do our spin operation but for some reason you've managed
to make let's say the pin over here you weren't quite sure where you were you'd be moving things around.
If you do the spin from here it will look odd and I'll show you what I mean right away.
So let's scroll down and get to our spin.
If I go ahead and click that we get these two blue pluses on the screen.
If I start doing that you will notice that look at that doesn't look like a pin at all and you'll be asking
over in the Q and A's Mike mine doesn't look like a pin what's gone on.
The reason why it doesn't look like a pin is because we're rotating, our rotational symmetry is based
around the objects origin and the way that we're rotating it round on the Z axis here.
So that's very important.
And the same if it was off at some funny angle you'd end up with some awesome looking shapes but it might
not be the one that you wanted it to be.
So what do we do if that is the case.
Well hopefully it isn't but if it is what you can do is look at it from the side and we can do a best
guess.
So in this case the I just need to undo the mess that I've caused there.
Look at this from the front again and you'd select everything you'd find your origin and you just move
as close as you can.
And then once you've done that once you can do is manually adjust this vertex at the bottom here so
I can go and find oh I didn't want to do that.
I'm just going to turn off spin and do the select mode again some actually selecting say here's
my vertex here I can go in and manually adjust it.
So it's where X equals zero.
And here at the top as well so this is going to be slightly wider than it was before.
But you know what I don't mind.
We can always patch these things later as well if necessary.
Now what I am going to do at this point is I do want mine to be pretty spot on.
I'm a bit of a perfectionist so I'm just going to open up where I left off before and just go back into
edit mode.
I know everything's set up because I have kind of prepared for this as you probably guessed.
So let's go back in and have a look at the spin mode itself.
I'm just going to do something we shall bring up the operator panel and I'll show you our options.
So we've got our angle.
If I increase the angle we start to get it coming around so here for instance if I type in 180 we should
get half a pin and we do pretty awesome.
Now we've got this option here called auto merge.
So if we went all the way around to 360 degrees what we should find is that these vertices that are
now overlapping because of course there was that there were some there before.
Unfortunately that's not the case at the moment.
I found the auto merge doesn't actually merge these vertices.
It just simply puts them in the same place and ensures that they're in the same place.
I found that I still need to go back afterwards select everything in my model and remove doubles.
Now steps what does that do.
Well steps is like the resolution of our spin that we've done.
See if you set that too high if I go all I might have just crashed blender.
I hope I haven't.
So be careful if you click and drag that's because you may find that oh there you go.
We've caught up to a thousand that's far far far too much geometry.
Oh wow I can't even see the faces that's created.
So don't go that high.
That's far too much.
And of course if you had four that would it.
Well it looks kind of cool but that's not the shape that we go for either.
There's always a fine balance in making sure that your geometry has the right level of detail and there'll
be loads of things pulling you and pushing you towards being really realistic or perhaps you're making
a model for a bowling game and if you're doing that you may have restrictions on how much geometry you
have.
I've been playing about with this lots and I think 16 is a good number as low as eight and as high as
32 may be somewhere in between.
But I do like my multiples of eight so I might even go for 24 and they're not 243 24 is kind of a halfway
house.
I'm not sure I like playing with these things and seeing what the output is.
That's the crucial thing.
And of course it's no longer a pin profile.
It's also a pin.
So we've got a bit of renaming to do.
Now one of the things that you will notice is no matter what you do let's say we set this quite low.
That's a six steps and we come out of it.
And so we've now got our pin it looks really good.
What we can also do is right click on it and go to shade smooth.
So this opens up our context menu gives us a load of shortcuts common ones for what we're currently
in which is object mode.
And one of the options is shade smooth and now I'll take that faceted look and make it look smooth.
Now one of the things you'll notice is that if you look at it from certain angles you can see that it's
a hexagon especially from the top.
This is what's called occlusion it's the outline of our shape from certain angles.
So from this angle it looks pretty fine until you get one of those top views either slightly looking
down we start to get this really horrible edge to it and that's where coming in and tweaking the amount
of geometry that's on our pin comes into effect.
So six is obviously too low can we see if there's eight.
Can we see that.
If there's 16.
At what point does it really not matter anymore.
The other thing to bear in mind is if you're looking at your pin from this distance well that's completely
different than if you're this close to your pin says loads of things that play into this.
And with that knowledge it's time for your challenge.
Okay.
So your challenge is to use the spin tool to create your pin. Set your pin to have between 8 and 32 steps.
Don't worry if you have to go back and just try out and different numbers of steps depending on how
it looks and remember to check for duplicates and remove doubles if you do have them, turn on smooth
shading and sit back and admire your pin.
And once you've done that go and show it off over in the discussions pause the video now and give that
a go.
Okay everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead and create our pin. Okay everybody so let's start by first of all going into edit mode
selecting all.
I'm gonna go down to spin straight away I want to start the spin I think I'm gonna go for sixteen in
total in in total number of steps they're nice halfway house and we're gonna have 360 I'm gonna have
auto merge on and we'll hope that it works it might it might not.
I'm just going to click away and I'm gonna press W to go back to selection mode now with everything
all sorted I'm gonna press the A key which is going to select all of my mesh data and I'm going to
go to the F3 to search and then we go remove doubles was one of the last things I did I can just type
in doubles as nice quick way of getting that up and yes removed 30 vertices and its probably 30 from
the top to the bottom so there we go that's all sorted there let's come out into object mode right click
and shades smooth OK.
Let's look at this from the top.
I need to just focus back in again and save my work as well.
OK.
So from this range you can see that it's a little bit jagged around the top at 16.
But to be quite honest I don't think I need any extra detailing in there.
I think that's enough.
I think any more assets would be a waste when I could use something called a subsurface division modifier
to do that for me.
In fact at the moment this might be a little too high poly depending on what we wanted to do with it.
Anyway it's good for the moment.
Stick with it.
Let's rename it is no longer a pin profile is it.
It's a bowling pin.
I'm gonna rename it appropriately.
There we go bowling pin.
They'll also shift it out of the way of these ones that we just called pin before.
So now I have my bowling pin objects.
Well I'll have a look at it in lookdev, look at that nice and shiny.
Well it's not shiny yet.
It's kind of a bit meh to be honest.
And that's because it's got it's default material on it.
So there were a couple of things that I think we're going to do in the next couple of lectures.
Well I know we're going to do them the pin stripes.
No they're not called pin stripes, the stripes that go across the top there.
pin stripes would be vertical would look pretty awesome.
So we've got the stripes to go across and perhaps make it a lot shinier.
I know looking at bowling pins they often have you know when they're worn they have scuffs and things
on.
But when there new they're pretty shiny.
So we need to sort that out as well.
That'll be being one of the future lectures so I'm happy with that.
I hope you're really happy with yours.
I hope it's coming together really well.
And please do share your work over in the discussions we've got something we can show off now to go
and show itself and I'll see you all in the next lecture.